{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21160\viewh16260\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Comp Media Fall 2018 Documentation \
3 November 2018\
\
Using A-Frame and the free-use Glitch platform, I\'92ve been able create basic, lightweight builds for immediate front-end deployment with text and simple 3D objects (spheres, cubes, cylinders) as well as tinker with the script to change environment lighting, color, and predetermined camera movement (this in addition to click-and-drag VR cardboard viewer experiences from a static standpoint). \
\
Adding photos to the code has also been proven a simple exercise working with Glitch\'92s GUI and text editor, though at this point I\'92m still familiarizing myself with the capabilities, scene setup, and language involved with the Glitch 3D environment. As Glitch is open source and free to use and \'93remix\'94 under the MIT license, I\'92d like to continue to explore its boundaries with regard to mass-deployable, globally accessible 360\'ba video and directional sound (e.g. incorporating an html link to a 360\'ba video stitched together with directional,  audio to the scene\'92s environment). \
\
Taking well into consideration the caveat that my programming language abilities are at best, \'93conversational\'94 with regard to HTML, JavaScript, and CSS in conjunction with each other, I do think that the realization of a polished rough cut of my thesis work documenting both the success and significance of the Biorock coral reef restoration and marine ecosystem regeneration methods deployed in Bali is possible by the end of this quarter. \
\
For succinctness\'92 sake, I\'92ve copied a summary of my thesis project from a grant application submitted this past week below. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 My thesis work is centered on investigating, applying, and determining the efficacy of immersive journalism through the use of virtual reality (VR) and 360\'ba video and soundscapes. \
\
I am currently in the process of applying these methods to create globally accessible VR experiences by filming and recording the Biorock accretion method of regenerating marine ecosystems, with a primary focus on coral reef restoration efforts in the village of Pemuteran, located on northern coast of Bali, Indonesia. \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Immersive journalism is very much an inchoate medium--within it lies the potential to usher attention to global concerns such as the decimation of marine ecosystems that could previously only be observed and witnessed firsthand by individuals with the means to travel to remote sites and dive underwater. Recent developments in VR offer an unprecedented opportunity to convey the fragility, beauty, and magnitude of these underwater ecosystems to mass audiences as well as illuminate the ways in which we can successfully reverse the damage of human impact.\cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \
Only within the past three years have VR headsets and experiences become an accessible and affordable medium to global users, owing in large part to the development of the Google's Cardboard and Daydream platforms. Through the use of low-cost VR headsets compatible with the majority of smartphones sold on the world market, users worldwide are now able to experience immersive, 360\'ba video simply via mobile phone, YouTube, and an Internet connection. \
 \
Though immersive journalism is still in its infancy, its potential is tremendous. Through this project, the visceral impact of VR journalism--specifically, when applied to remote, underwater environments\'97can be while simultaneously generating further interest and funding toward the development of sustainable, ecotourism.
\f0 \cf0 \
\
\
\
}